







The 'Om Shanti Om' director also shared a glimpse of the rehearsals for the song.



"Sometimes we can’t let go of memories, becoz they r constant reminders of a great Story that we never expected to end..A glimpse of the hard work n talent of Sushant Singh Rajput," Farah wrote on the micro-blogging site.







The song has left everyone in amazement and admiration of the late actor’s acting skills and proficiency in dancing. The trailer of the movie has also outshined the record of superhero film Avengers by becoming the most liked trailer on Youtube in 24 hours.



WATCH| 'Dil Bechara' Title Song: Sushant Singh Rajput's Effortless Dance Moves Will Win Your Hearts



Sushant Singh Rajput’s close friend and director of his last film ‘Dil Bechara’ Mukesh Chhabra also shared a screenshot of his conversation with the choreographer and how she came on board for the song. He also added that after listening to the song, Farah Khan decided to do it in one take believing that Sushant can totally pull it off and she would do it for him and Sushant without charging a single penny.





After the release of the first song of the late actor’s last movie ‘Dil Bechara’, which is slated to release on the OTT platform Disney+Hotstar on the 24th July 2020, choreographer Farah Khan took to her twitter remembering the shooting days with Sushant Singh Rajput. She recalls how the entire song was shot in a single take and the talented actor nailing it with his dancing skills and charm. The song portrays Sushant’s character Manny dancing to the beats of the AR Rahman song where he is singing about his ‘Bechara dil’ after being friend-zoned by his love interest Kizzie (Sanjana Sanghi) in the movie.Her tweet read, “This song is special!1sttime @itsSSR n i worked 2gether.he nailed the 1shot song perfectly n only reward he wanted was food frm my home..in hindsight I shld hav fed u a little more, hugged u a lot more.thank u @CastingChhabra 4 including me inur journey..” The choreographer was also inundated with the feeling of how the actor looked so alive and happy in the song.