The Warriors will be seeking an explanation from the NRL referees boss after being on the receiving end of several contentious decisions during Friday night's deflating defeat to the Gold Coast.

Premiership-winning coach Phil Gould was among a number of experts who slammed the bunker's decision to deny the Warriors a try late in the first half that proved to be crucial in the 16-12 defeat.

Bradley Kanaris Skipper Roger Tuivasa-Sheck during the Warriors’ frustrating loss to the Titans.

Referee Chris Butler also did not award the Auckland club a single penalty, which left Warriors coach Todd Payten questioning the consistency of the interpretations at the ruck.

Like Payten, assistant coach Justin Morgan ultimately felt the Warriors were their own worst enemies and sympathised with match officials as they adapt to the new rules.

READ MORE:

* Warriors find clarity with situation but hits keep coming as quartet likely to return home

* Warriors bemused by bunker decision but refuse to make excuses for Titans loss

* Gold Coast Titans strike late as Warriors' search for consistency continues



But they still have a "long list of questions" for referees boss Bernard Sutton ahead of next Sunday's clash against Cronulla.

"We'll ask some questions, we need to keep people honest and accountable for what's going on. It doesn't make today any easier," Morgan said.

"To be fair, with the new six-again rule, the club's are getting used to it, coaches are getting used it, no doubt referees are getting used to it. So there are some inconsistencies at the moment and that makes it a little bit harder to swallow. But we just have to ride it out."

Gould took to Twitter to label video referee Jared Maxwell's decision to penalise Jack Hetherington's challenge on Jamal Fogarty as a 'disgrace'.

The tackle appeared to come at the same as the Titans halfback was picking up the ball, with Fox Sports pundits Greg Alexander, Steve Roach, Corey Parker and Braith Anasta also claiming the Warriors were hard done by.

But Morgan was quick to emphasise that regardless of Sutton's response, it won't change the result and urged the side to focus on the areas they can control.

"We had a dodgy one last week and a dodgy one this week. But let's be realistic, we don't get always get every single call," he said.

Bradley Kanaris Warriors forward Jack Hetherington is wrapped up by the TItans defence.

"You're going to have some adversity from decisions and the bounce of the ball at different stages. We need to be better as a team at overcoming those."

The Warriors shot out to a 12-0 lead in the first eight minutes but, despite enjoying the lion's share of possession and territory in the first half, failed to score again.

Morgan used a boxing analogy to describe the side's performance as they struggled to find the killer blow.

That doesn't always mean attempting a risky play, with the former Warriors forward insisting they need to do a better job of understanding when to push the pass and when to build pressure.

"I thought our effort was better and at different stages we showed some resilience defensively," Morgan said. "We still need to be better at putting teams away when we've got the opportunity. That comes with a little bit of maturity, with a little bit of experience, so hopefully we get a lesson or two from the game."

The Warriors escaped the match without any major injuries or suspensions, although Peta Hiku was fined for a tripping offence.

They could be boosted next week by five-eighth Kodi Nikorima (head knock) and boom rookie back-rower Eliesa Katoa (ankle), with both in line to return against the Sharks.