Remdesivir has been approved as Australia's first coronavirus treatment option, but it is "not a silver bullet" and will not be available to everyone.

Key points: Health Minister Greg Hunt has said Australia already has enough stock to begin treating suitable patients

Health Minister Greg Hunt has said Australia already has enough stock to begin treating suitable patients Authorities have stressed it is not a vaccine or a cure but helps those with severe cases of coronavirus

Authorities have stressed it is not a vaccine or a cure but helps those with severe cases of coronavirus Remdesivir is the only drug approved for use on severe patients in the US and the EU

The drug has received provisional approval from the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) for use in adults with severe COVID-19 symptoms as a promising treatment option to reduce hospitalisation times.

However, it will only be available to adults and adolescents in hospital with severe infections who need oxygen or are on respirators.

"Remdesivir is the most promising treatment option so far to reduce hospitalisation time for those suffering from severe coronavirus infections," the TGA said in a statement.

"While this is a major milestone in Australia's struggle against the pandemic, it is important to emphasise that the product has not been shown to prevent coronavirus infection or relieve milder cases of infection."

Australia has enough of the drug for the coming weeks

Deputy Chief Medical Officer Nick Coatsworth said Remdesivir was not a "silver bullet" but had already been given to people in Australia

"None of the international trials that have been conducted into Remdesivir have shown marked results but they have shown some results that indicate that it might be effective in patients with moderate to severe coronavirus disease," Dr Coatsworth said on Saturday.

"They include a reduction in the length of hospital stay and a potential reduction in the serious adverse events that coronavirus sufferers can get."

Due to a donation from the company that manufactures Remdesivir, there are enough doses of the drug in Australia to treat current patients.

"The current stockpile in Australia will be enough for the coming weeks," Dr Coatsworth said, adding that there were only 16 people in intensive care nationwide as of Saturday afternoon.

Remdesivir is an expensive drug but it will be subsidised.

"This will be paid for by the Australian Government," Dr Coatsworth said.

Shadow Treasurer Jim Chalmers said the Government needed to ensure the treatment was well stocked.

"It will be an important part of treatment in the absence of a vaccine," Mr Chalmers said on Saturday.

"We need to make sure it's available with sufficient stocks in a sufficient number to treat the people who have come down with this infection."

Medical staff in Victoria keen for Remdesivir

Victorian Chief Health Officer Brett Sutton said Remdesivir had shown some effect in patients and would have a role in treatments. ( AAP: Stefan Postles )

Dr Coatsworth said Remdesivir had been used selectively in Australia earlier in the pandemic as well as recently during Victoria's latest outbreak.

Victorian Chief Health Officer Brett Sutton said clinicians in his state would be keen to have wider access to the drug as an option to treat patients.

"If it's on the Australian register of therapeutic goods now they will love to have it available for them as they have used Dexamethasone," he said.

Dr Sutton said Remdesivir may have less of an effect on death rates when compared to the powerful steroid Dexamethasone.

"Remdesivir is another drug that's shown some effect, possibly not as strong as the simple and cheap Dexamethasone steroid drug but it certainly has a role and seems to reduce the amount of time that people are ill for and require in hospital," he said.

Dr Sutton said the Australian Government looked to get its own supply of the drug, "but the US really went very hard in gobbling up the entire global supply".

Health experts have previously criticised the US for hoarding almost all of the world's supply.

It is the only drug to have been licensed by the US and the European Union as a treatment for severely ill coronavirus patients.

While addressing the issue of stock availability last week, Federal Health Minister Greg Hunt said Australia had acted early and had worked with the supplier Gilead to secure a reserve supply.