HOLLYWOOD, CALIFORNIA - OCTOBER 06: Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith attend Paramount Pictures' Premiere of "Gemini Man" on October 06, 2019 in Hollywood, California. (Photo by Axelle/Bauer-Griffin/FilmMagic)

Jada Pinkett Smith has admitted to having a relationship with August Alsina while she and husband Will Smith were separated.

The star made the admission in an unexpected episode of her online family chat show Red Table Talk, after Alsina claimed they had been involved in a relationship with Smith’s permission.

Smith acknowledged the separation on the show, saying the pair took the steps so they could “figure out how they could make themselves happy”.

Read more: Jada Pinkett Smith denies singer August Alsina's affair claims

Pinkett Smith continued: “From there, as time went on, I got into a different kind of entanglement with August.”

Smith responded “An entanglement”? A relationship!’ to which she answered: “It was a relationship, absolutely.”

However, she went on the address Alsina’s claims he had sat down with Smith and gained his permission to beigin the affair.

She explained: “One of the things I want to clear up that was kind of swirling in the press was you giving permission.

“The only person who can give permission in that particular circumstance is myself.

“But what August was actually trying to communicate because I could actually see how he would perceive it as permission because we were separated amicably.

“And I think he also wanted to make it clear that he’s not a homewrecker, which he’s not.

LOS ANGELES, CA - JUNE 25: August Alsina (L) and Jada Pinkett Smith at the 2017 BET Awards at Staples Center on June 25, 2017 in Los Angeles, California. (Photo by Paras Griffin/Getty Images for BET) More

“I just wanted to feel good. It had been so long since I felt good.”

Smith said in the episode it was a “miracle” he was speaking to his wife again.

Read more: Will Smith: I'm a way better father than I am a husband

The instalment of the candid show ended with the couple exchanging a fist bump.

The pair have been married since 1997 after previously meeting on set of The Fresh Prince of Bel Air.

Smith left his then wife Sheree Zampino, with whom he had a son named Trey, now 27, so he could marry Pinkett Smith.