WASHINGTON, DC: The United States said on Friday (Jul 10) it was "disappointed" by Turkey's decision to turn the Byzantine-era monument Hagia Sophia back into a mosque and urged equal access for all visitors.

"We are disappointed by the decision by the government of Turkey to change the status of the Hagia Sophia," State Department spokeswoman Morgan Ortagus said.

Advertisement

Advertisement

"We understand the Turkish government remains committed to maintaining access to the Hagia Sophia for all visitors, and look forward to hearing its plans for continued stewardship of the Hagia Sophia to ensure it remains accessible without impediment for all," she said.

"The ruling by the Turkish Council of State to overturn one of modern Turkey's landmark decisions and President Erdogan's decision to place the monument under the management of the Religious Affairs Presidency is regrettable," European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said in a statement.

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has chipped away at the Muslim-majority country's secularism, announced Muslim prayers on Jul 24 at the UNESCO World Heritage site.

The announcement was made just an hour after a top court ruled that the ancient building's conversion to a museum by modern Turkey's founding statesman was illegal.

Advertisement

Advertisement

A magnet for tourists worldwide, the Hagia Sophia was first constructed as a cathedral in the Christian Byzantine Empire.

It was converted into a mosque after the Ottoman conquest of Constantinople in 1453.

FILE PHOTO: Gli the cat of Hagia Sophia or Ayasofya, a UNESCO World Heritage Site which was a Byzantine cathedral before it was converted into a mosque and then a museum, is pictured in Istanbul, Turkey, Jul 2, 2020. (REUTERS/Murad Sezer/File Photo)

Modern Turkey's secularising founder Mustafa Kemal Ataturk then decided to preserve the monument as a museum.

Erdogan went ahead despite an open appeal to the NATO ally by US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, an evangelical Christian who frequently speaks about religious freedom.

In a statement last week, Pompeo called the museum status an "exemplar" of Turkey's "commitment to respect the faith traditions and diverse history" of the country and said a change risked "diminishing the legacy of this remarkable building."

Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden also said Friday he deeply regretted Turkey's decision.

Biden called on Erdogan to reverse it "and instead keep this treasured place in its current status as a museum, ensuring equal access for all."