Imagine a world where the colour of your skin stopped you from entering the local swimming pool.

Key points: A state funeral has been held for Uncle Lyall Munro Senior in Moree, NSW

A state funeral has been held for Uncle Lyall Munro Senior in Moree, NSW He was a passionate land rights leader and social justice campaigner

He was a passionate land rights leader and social justice campaigner The respected Komeroi elder was involved in the famous 1965 Freedom Rides highlighting racism in regional towns

Discrimination of that kind is unthinkable today, and Uncle Lyall Munro Senior helped change that.

The respected Komeroi elder, who died in May, was today honoured at a state funeral in his hometown of Moree in northern New South Wales.

WARNING: Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander readers are advised that this article contains an image of people who have died.

His son, Lyall Munro Junior, told the 650 people gathered that his father fought for better housing, access to education, land rights and free legal counsel for all Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.

"He was famous for arguing with anyone who stood in his way of achieving his dreams for Aboriginal people," Lyall Munro Junior said.

"Over his life he influenced some incredibly gifted people.

"Our family will continue to fight for the struggles of our people."

The ABC has permission from Uncle Lyall Munro Senior's family to include photographs and use his name in this article.

Uncle Lyall Munro Senior worked tirelessly to bring about effective change for Aboriginal people. ( Supplied )

'An amazing Australian'

Born into a world of racial segregation in 1931, Uncle Lyall, a boy from Tingha, dedicated his life to his people.

He locked horns with prime ministers, advised leaders, and addressed international peace forums.

He helped establish the NSW Aboriginal Legal Service, rallied against the effects of asbestos mining on the North Coast, contributed to the royal commission into Indigenous deaths in custody, and fought tirelessly for housing for Aboriginal people.

Uncle Lyall Munro Senior was a much loved member of the Moree community. ( Supplied: Georgina Poole )

He was crucial in establishing a memorial at the site of the Myall Creek Massacre near Bingara where at least 28 Aboriginal people were killed in 1838.

Representing the NSW Premier today, Member for Northern Tablelands Adam Marshall said Uncle Lyall was an "amazing Australian".

"His achievements were many and varied and every single one of them has made a real and tangible difference to his people in Moree and right across this country," Mr Marshall said.

"He led this country down the road to equality. We're still all travelling that road."

Riding for freedom

In 1965 Uncle Lyall joined the 'Freedom Rides' to raise awareness about racial segregation in rural towns.

The movement, now considered a watershed moment in national race relations, took him to Moree where he, alongside revered activist Charlie Perkins, protested against the exclusion of Aboriginal people from clubs in Walgett, swimming pools in Moree and Kempsey, and picture theatres in Bowraville.

Mourners gathered at Moree today for Uncle Lyall Munro Senior's funeral. ( Supplied: Georgina Poole )

Until his death Uncle Lyall remained passionate about the town of Moree.

There he served on the board of the hospital and held positions in numerous community organisations including Moree Aboriginal Sobriety House, Moree Local Aboriginal Land Council, and numerous housing organisations.

Uncle Lyall and his late wife Carmine had 12 children.

He is survived by nine children, 45 grandchildren, 122 great-grandchildren and 28 great-great-grandchildren.