Latest Gloucestershire news to your inbox Join us here Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email

This is the stunning sight of a comet in the sky over Cheltenham Racecourse today.

The image of Comet Neowise you can see at the top of this article was taken in the early hours of Saturday by Tom Chitson, who has kindly let Gloucestershire Live share the image.

He said it is one of the few comets that will be visible to the naked eye this century.

The 24-year-old environmental researcher said: "I've been interested in astronomy since I studied it as an optional GCSE at school, and it even inspired me to study Physics at university.

"This is the first time I've seen a comet in the night sky, and luckily my girlfriend's house has a brilliant view overlooking Cheltenham Racecourse and, importantly, the northern horizon where Comet Neowise is visible."

We'd love to see more of your pictures and you can send them to us at gloslivenews@glosmedia.co.uk or via our social media channels.

You can see more images in the gallery above.

And if you missed it this morning, it should be visible throughout this month.

It will be at its closest point to earth - 103 million kilometres away - on July 23, according to Paul Sutherland, author of Skymania.

He said: “By the third week of July, the comet will be on view all night long and stargazers will be able to view it before going to bed, rather than having to get out of their warm beds before dawn!”

It has also been seen from the International Space Station.

A NASA spokesman said: "Comet C/2020 F3 (NEOWISE) was discovered in late March and brightened as it reached its closest approach to the Sun, inside the orbit of Mercury, late last week.

“The interplanetary iceberg survived solar heating, so far, and is now becoming closer to the Earth as it starts its long trek back to the outer Solar System.”

If you want to see the comet, you can look to the east around midnight to 1am and you'll see the bright object that is actually Venus.

From there, look left (facing north) and you should see the bright star Capella.

Then look down towards the horizon and to the left and you should be able to see a streak.

That's Neowise.

Each night it will be a little further to the left. As it is close to the horizon, you'll need a view that isn't obscured by buildings or trees.

Comets are made up of dust rubble and ice and when passing around the Sun it heats up and hence we see the trail of dust and gas emitted from its icy body.

It is the dust left over from comets that form the meteor showers (shooting stars).

The most famous comet, Halley's comet was last seen in 1985/6 and will return to us again in 2061.

If you've taken any images of the comet, we would love to see them and share them with our readers.

You can contact us at gloslivenews@reachplc.com or via our social media channels.

For the day's breaking news, visit our live blog.