Two activists have been arrested on suspicion of criminal damage after the waters of Trafalgar Square's fountains were dyed blood red.

Animal Rebellion are claiming the coronavirus crisis was caused by eating meat and the activists called for an end to 'climate-destructive and exploitative industries' which they claim caused the pandemic.

Demonstrators held placards reading 'the government has blood on their hands' as they waded knee-high into the red waters today.

Photographs show a female activist standing knee high in the red water wearing a face mask and holding a pink placard.

She was then approached by Metropolitan Police officers who talked her out of the fountains before escorting her away.

The waters of Trafalgar Square's fountains have been dyed red by activists who are claiming the coronavirus crisis could have been prevented by going vegan

Demonstrators held placards reading 'the government has blood on their hands' as they waded knee-high into the red waters today

London Metropolitan Police have said two activists were arrested on suspicion of criminal damage

The Met said: 'Two people have been arrested on suspicion of criminal damage following an incident at the fountains in Trafalgar Square earlier today'

Animal rights and environmental activists hold signs as they stand inside a fountain whose water was turned red after protesters poured coloured dye into the clear water

Ducks swim in the fountain turned red in Trafalgar Square, London, today by animal rights activists

Photographs show a female activist standing knee high in the red water wearing a face mask and holding a pink placard

Animal rights activists in costume holding signs saying 'global boiling' and 'don't bait me' sit at Trafalgar Square

An Animal Rebellion protester stands in the fountains at Trafalgar Square in London this afternoon

Protesters holding signs gather around Nelson's Column in Trafalgar Square today to protest against animal farming

Animal Rebellion claimed responsibility for dying the waters of Trafalgar Square's fountains

London Metropolitan Police said: 'Two people have been arrested on suspicion of criminal damage following an incident at the fountains in Trafalgar Square earlier today.

'They remain in custody. '

Animal Rebellion tweeted: 'Animal Rebellion have now dyed the Trafalgar Square fountains red, symbolising the blood that is on the hands of the UK Government.

'We are here today to demand that the government prevent future pandemics by ending animal farming and transitioning to a plant-based food system.

'This crisis could have been prevented. The science tells us that 3 out of every 4 new infectious diseases originate from animals.

'The UK Government must protect the people, not support climate-destructive and exploitative industries'.

She was then approached by Metropolitan Police officers who talked her out of the fountains before escorting her away

Animal Rebellion dyed the waters red as they called for an end to 'climate-destructive and exploitative industries' which they claim caused the pandemic

An animal rights and environmental activist holds a sign inside a fountain whose water was turned red after protesters poured coloured dye into the clear water

People relax around the fountain by Nelson's Column in Trafalgar Square, London, this afternoon

Police officers speak with animal rights and environmental activists dressed in costumed today

Stephanie Zupan, a representative of Animal Rebellion said: 'The Government must now begin a transition towards a plant-based food system, or risk future zoonotic pandemics of catastrophic proportions.'

Animal Rebellion said the action was coordinated with protests in 20 cities, including Bristol, Brighton and New York.

Kieran Blyth, another representative for the group, said: 'These unsatisfactory and dangerous measures will only increase the risk of future pandemics.

'The Government are playing with the potential of tens of thousands more deaths.'