Get all the very latest news in Ireland straight to your email every single day Sign up! Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email

Margot Robbie's name has been trending on Twitter after Will Smith 's bombshell interview with his wife Jada Pinkett Smith last night.

Will, 51, sat down for a candid chat with his wife Jada, 48, on Red Table Talk last night.

During the discussion, Jada went public with her affair with singer August Alsina, 27, during a difficult patch in her marriage to the actor four and a half years ago, Mirror.co.uk reports.

Will also spoke out about his own issues within the marriage, and fans thought he to hinted he'd also been unfaithful when he said they had both "made mistakes without fear of losing" their family.

The revelation sent fans into a frenzy, and they flocked to Twitter to debate the subject - with Will's Focus co-star Margot, 30, being among the names bandied about online.

(Image: WireImage)

One joked: "Margot Robbie on top of Will Smith in the trending. I mean, that's the story, isn't it?"

Another shared a clip of Margot's appearance on The Tonight Show With Jimmy Fallon in 2018.

On the show, she was asked a series of personal questions in which she had to reveal the answer but not the question.

(Image: Facebook Watch)

She then had to could choose to drink a shot or tell the audience the question she'd been asked.

Margot said Will Smith was the answer to the question she'd been asked, but decided to down the shot rather than reveal what she'd been asked.

There is no suggestion that Margot was ever romantically involved with Will.

The pair starred together in 2015 crime caper Focus, with Will playing a con man who takes a young grifter, played by Margot, under his wing to pull off a major scam.

(Image: Getty Images)

During the Red Table Talks chat, Jada confirmed she'd had a relationship with singer August Alsina, 27, during their marriage.

The showbiz super-couple explained it came during a difficult patch in the marriage around four and a half years ago.

Smith admitted he was convinced the marriage was over and he never wanted to speak to his wife again, but they managed to patch things up.