Hide Transcript Show Transcript

We thought the disease was oaks. He thought he was young and he was invincible and wouldn't get affected by the disease. Ah, 30 year old man killed by the virus after attending a covert party in Texas. One of the things it was heart wrenching that he said to his nurse was, You know, um, I think I made a mistake. Facing a crisis, Texas's governor extended the state's disaster declaration in new Oasis County. The county morgue has now hit capacity, and an infant is one of the latest victims of the virus. There is an infant under the age of six months who died just on Friday. Georgia, Illinois and Utah reported record high cases. California alone surpassed 300,000 cases, and West Virginia now has the highest rate of transmission in the country. The virus is spreading faster, person a person in West Virginia right now than any other state in the country. In Florida, it's the second time reporting more than 11,000 new cases in a single day, the state averaging more than 9000 cases a day, up more than 1200% since the state started reopening in May. Now the World Health Organization is warning. In our current situation, it is very unlikely that we can eradicate or eliminate this wears at the White House. I'm Whitney Wild reporting.

Advertisement What you need to know about COVID-19: Surgeon general urges face coverings Share Shares Copy Link Copy

Surgeon General Jerome Adams said Sunday the Trump administration is “trying to correct” its guidance from earlier in the coronavirus epidemic that wearing face coverings was not necessary.With virus cases surging and many states and cities now issuing orders to wear masks in public, Adams said he and other administration officials were wrong back in March. But he insists they were going with the scientific knowledge at the time, which suggested that people with COVID-19 who showed no symptoms were not likely to spread the virus.Adams said on CBS’ “Face the Nation” that “once upon a time, we prescribed cigarettes for asthmatics and leeches and cocaine and heroin for people as medical treatments. When we learned better, we do better.”Dr. Tom Inglesby, director of the Center for Health Security at Johns Hopkins University, told “Fox News Sunday” that he would have liked to have seen administration officials wear masks sooner. He says it should not be viewed as a “personal choice” but a public health imperative.Trump was seen wearing a mask in public for the first time Saturday during a visit to a military hospital.US cases increase as leaders clash over how to curb the spreadWith coronavirus cases climbing across the U.S., local and state leaders have found themselves at odds over the types of restrictions that should be in place to move forward effectively.In Florida, Rep. Donna Shalala said the virus is still out of control and places like Miami are edging closer to shutting down for a second time."It's out of control across the state because our governor won't even tell everybody to wear masks. At least in Miami-Dade county, everyone must wear a mask when they're outside," she told CNN."This is an American tragedy," she added.Florida on Sunday reported the largest single-day increase in positive coronavirus cases in any one state since the beginning of the pandemic.According to state Department of Health statistics, over 15,000 people tested positive, for a total of nearly 270,000 cases.California had the previous record of daily positive cases — 11,694, four days ago. New York had 11,571 on April 15.In the past weeks, Florida broke multiple records of single-day highs in new cases and reported another 10,360 new infections Saturday. Around 40 hospitals across the state have no ICU beds available and more than 7,000 patients are hospitalized statewide with the virus, state data showed Saturday.Gov. Ron DeSantis has resisted implementing a state-wide mask mandate, saying last week the state has "stabilized where we're at." On Saturday, he suggested Florida would not be moving on to the next reopening phase for now, saying "we want to get this positivity rate down."In Georgia, Gov. Brian Kemp slammed the Atlanta mayor's decision to move the city's reopening back to phase 1, saying the action was "merely guidance -- both non-binding and legally unenforceable." Phase 1 includes an order for residents to stay home except for essential trips. The mayor, who has tested positive for COVID-19, defended her decision saying the state opened recklessly and residents were "suffering the consequences.""As clearly stated in my executive orders, no local action can be more or less restrictive, and that rule applies statewide," Kemp wrote on Twitter.The debates are part of nationwide efforts by U.S. leaders to control a now rapid spread of coronavirus without having to force residents into a second lockdown. More than half of U.S. states have paused or rolled back their reopening plans in hopes of slowing down new cases. But both mandates and suggestions for face masks by officials still face heavy backlash by many Americans -- even as experts warn they're the most effective way to prevent further spread of the virus.The latest numbersNow deep into the coronavirus crisis, the U.S. is reporting more than 3.2 million infections, according to Johns Hopkins University. That's more than the individual population of 21 states, Washington DC and Puerto Rico, according to U.S. Census Bureau data. At least 135,000 Americans have died. According to data from Johns Hopkins University, at least 33 states are recording an upward trend in new cases, compared to the previous week.Those states are: Alabama, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia and Wisconsin.Fourteen states are trekking steady: Alaska, Arizona, Maryland, Mississippi, Nevada, New Hampshire, Oregon, New York, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Washington state and Wyoming.Three states are reporting a decline: Delaware, Maine and New Jersey The debate around school openingsAs the country grapples to get ahold of the crisis, the president announced last week he's pressuring governors to reopen schools in a push to return the country to business as usual.Despite a surge in cases in the state and cries of protest from educators, Florida's education department announced it will require schools to reopen in the fall. Other state leaders have stopped short of announcing any changes just yet, but some local decisions have pushed the beginning of fall semesters back. The CDC has released guidelines for parents and administrators, but the agency's head, Dr. Robert Redfield, said the decision for the safest course ultimately lies with the districts.But internal documents from the CDC warned fully reopening K-12 schools and universities would pose the "highest risk" for spread of the virus, according to a report by The New York Times.The 69-page document obtained by the Times marked "For Internal Use Only" was among materials for federal public health response teams deployed to coronavirus hotspots to help local public health officials handle the outbreak, the newspaper reported.Stop the spread of COVID-19To help stop the spread of the coronavirus, the CDC recommends you keep 6 feet between yourself and others, and wear a mask.Make sure to wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds and avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth.For more tips on how to stay safe, CLICK HERE.