Sign up for our Liverpool FC newsletter and be happy like Mo I'm in! Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

If it was supposed to be the internal feud that threatened to derail Liverpool’s season then Sadio Mane versus Mohamed Salah was not the high-profile contest it was cracked up to be.

Peace negotiations following the Turf (Moor) War back on August 31, when the Reds last faced Burnley have long since been ratified and the belligerents have kissed and made up.

Some 10-and-a-half months on, the longest domestic English football season on record has still yet to be completed but spearheaded by the pair’s prolific scoring, Liverpool are already champions for the first time in 30 years.

A storm in a teacup? Using the crystal clear vision that hindsight provides, perhaps, but at the time of the flashpoint, tempers ran high.

Despite the visitors already being 3-0 up with just five minutes to spare and the points from a 13th consecutive Premier League victory in the bag, Mane took umbrage with Salah’s decision to take a shot rather than pass the ball to him.

The unmarked Senegalese international looked to be in a better position to score but the Egyptian chose to pull the trigger, only to find himself crowded out and his effort blocked.

Shortly afterwards Mane was substituted and as he made his way to the bench, he threw his training shirt to the floor and gesticulated towards his team-mate.

Sign up for the Liverpool ECHO daily Liverpool newsletter HERE

Speaking on the incident, manager Jurgen Klopp said: “He was upset, that was obvious.

“Sadio cannot hide his emotions and I like that. It's all sorted.

“We spoke about it and everything is fine. We are individuals, we are emotional. It was a situation in the game he wasn't happy about - that's completely fine.

“Would he do it in exactly the same manner again? Probably not, but it happens. Nothing happened, he didn't say any wrong words.”

Top strikers have to be ruthless and as Liverpool legend Steve Nicol pointed out in the aftermath, such heated moments are “nothing new” in football.

When asked several weeks later about the details of what happened, Mane insisted the matter had been resolved.

Listen to Friday's Blood Red podcast by clicking HERE

The £34million signing from Southampton recalled: “He (Salah) said to me ‘Sadio, why are you angry?’ I told him, ‘You needed to give me the ball, Mo’, to which he replied, ‘I didn’t see you. You know I’ve got nothing against you’.

“I know that, but his reaction was a bit strange to me. We talk on the phone sometimes, we text each other and we don’t have a problem.

“We talked between ourselves, and then the manager called me into his office and we spoke. I told him it was already sorted and he was pleasantly surprised.”

For his part, Salah attempted to draw a line under proceedings a fortnight after the game with a simple Tweet of a short video showing the faces of Mane and himself superimposed on to two enthusiastic toddlers greeting each other with a hug while father figure Klopp looked on with an approving smile.

Having shared last season’s Premier League Golden Boot with Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang of Arsenal with the trio all on 22 goals, Mane and Salah have both continued to find the net on a regular basis again this term with no real signs of any friction between them re-emerging.

Although Jamie Vardy currently leads the way for the 2019/20 scoring prize, Mane and Salah have both broken the 20-goal barrier in all competitions for the third successive season.

A constant torment for opposition defences, the talented pair seem to find it easier to shake off their markers than question marks and speculation over the future though.

The whispering campaign from beyond Merseyside continues to claim that both men supposedly have ambitions to play for one of the Spanish giants, Barcelona or Real Madrid.

With Zinedine Zidane supposedly a big fan of the player, Real’s courting of Mane has at times been as subtle as their coach’s headbutt on Marco Materazzi in the 2006 World Cup final.

Meanwhile, some lockdown tittle-tattle in May produced a tale from former Egypt assistant manager Hany Ramzy claiming that in March 2018, Salah discussed “a really good offer” from Real Madrid with himself and national team boss Hector Cuper but “decided to stay with Liverpool because he was comfortable there.”

The claims were subsequently shot down by Salah’s agent Ramy Abbas with a blunt riposte of: “Mohamed never discussed any career plans with any ex-coach.”

With both players having turned 28 during lockdown, they are seemingly at the peak of their powers and at a point in their career where their stock is at its highest in terms of transfer value.

But Klopp must now hope that Liverpool are no longer a selling club.

Having lost Javier Mascherano, Luis Suarez and Philippe Coutinho to Barcelona; Xabi Alonso to Real Madrid and Fernando Torres to Chelsea when they were all arguably still in their prime, Klopp proclaimed his intention to make Anfield a final destination for the world’s best players back in November 2018.

He said: “As a club we have to be like there is no need to leave from the sports side.

“We really have a lot to offer. The club is trying everything to do things differently.”

As a manager, he has certainly delivered on that front since.

A club record 97-point haul last season proved agonisingly just short of ending Liverpool’s title drought but the campaign ended in glory as they lifted their sixth European Cup.

That Champions League success has of course been followed up with wins in the UEFA Super Cup, FIFA Club World Cup and now a first League Championship for 30 years, clinched with a record number of games to spare.

Such has been the Reds' dominance that even a global catastrophe like the coronavirus pandemic could only delay, not halt their march to the title.

What we’re already seeing though – first hand with Anfield chiefs balking at Timo Werner’s asking price – is COVID-19’s financial impact on the transfer market.

The likelihood of many mega deals – and if Mane or Salah were to depart Liverpool at this point it would surely be for a nine-figure fee – seems remote in the current climate.

And for all the lure that a move to either the Bernabeu or Camp Nou may have presented in the recent past, neither seems the dream ticket it once was and given the Reds lofty position within football’s balance of power right now, possibly even a backwards step.

Like Zidane, who subsequently came back, Cristiano Ronaldo quit Real Madrid after their 3-1 win over Liverpool in the 2018 Champions League final, but the majority of their brightest stars are now long in the tooth in footballing terms.

Also, in contrast to the efficient way that the likes of Klopp, Michael Edwards and FSG conduct affairs at Anfield, Phil Ball, the Spanish-based author of White Storm: 100 Years of Real Madridtold the ECHO last year that: “For all their success, Real are a badly-run club with too much money and not a lot of sense.”

Unlike Latin American predecessors Mascherano, Suarez and Coutinho, there isn’t the same kind of cultural pull to La Liga for Senegalese Mane or Egyptian Salah.

Also, if recent reports are to be believed, even Barcelona icon Lionel Messi seems to have become disillusioned with life at the team the one club man joined back in 2001 as a 13-year-old.

Liverpool’s incredible results owe much to the high intensity the manager instils in them through hard graft based upon hours of work at their Melwood training ground.

As Klopp’s long-serving president during his 11 years as a player and seven years as a coach at Mainz, Harald Strutz told the ECHO: “He makes the players burn.”

There will come a point in the future when Liverpool feel they have extracted all that they can from these two gems.

But right now, with Klopp’s side having only just reached top gear, the journey appears a long way from being over with many more potential miles on the clock in red shirts for Mane and Salah.