COLUMBUS, Ohio -- We know Ohio State football will not play Bowling Green, Oregon or Buffalo in 2020 after the Big Ten’s Thursday announcement that it will play only conference games due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

The rest of the Buckeyes’ schedule remains murky. The Big Ten has not announced exactly how many games its football teams will play, nor has it decided whether it will keep the original nine-game conference structure.

As it stands, Ohio State is scheduled to play its customary six Big Ten East opponents and three crossover opponents from the West: Illinois, Iowa and Nebraska.

Ohio State athletic director Gene Smith said he favors a 10-game model of conference games. If that simply means adding a road game against one of the other four West Division teams, the Buckeyes’ schedule could receive an intriguing boost.

One of those four teams has the same Oct. 3 schedule opening, plays only four home games compared to OSU’s five. It also happens to be located within a reasonable bus drive, if deemed preferable due to COVID-19 concerns.

That opponent — Purdue — happens to be the biggest thorn in Ohio State’s side among Big Ten teams over the past decade. The Boilermakers have won three of their last six meetings against OSU, with all three victories in West Lafayette. Ohio State fans certainly remember the 49-20 drubbing in 2018.

Rondale Moore, the Boilermakers’ star that day, remains in gold and black. Last year when Moore was injured, receiver David Bell emerged as a freshman All-American. So did defensive end George Karlaftis. Purdue could be lurking as a surprise team in the West after a 4-8 season.

A year ago that breakthrough team from the West was Minnesota. The Golden Gophers waged a populist campaign for a College Football Playoff spot into November before settling for a top-20 finish. Minnesota has a talented quarterback in Tanner Morgan, an All-Big Ten receiver in Rashod Bateman and a coach in P.J. Fleck who has invigorated this program in a short amount of time.

Or maybe the Buckeyes will draw another meeting with Wisconsin. Ohio State has beaten the Badgers in two of the last three Big Ten championship games, along with last season’s 38-7 victory in Ohio Stadium. The Buckeyes have only played in Madison once since 2012, and Wisconsin’s physical rushing attack potentially plays better there than in Lucas Oil Stadium.

None of those opponents equates to Oregon, which could again be in the playoff conversation. But none of them can be dismissed as a legitimate threat, either.

Or maybe the Buckeyes can get lucky and draw Northwestern, the same team it beat 52-3 in Evanston last season.

Then again, no one has benefited from an abundance of luck in 2020.

Fanatics has released Ohio State Buckeyes Adult Face Coverings. This 3-pack of adult masks, retails for $29.99.

New Ohio State face masks for sale: Here’s where you can buy Ohio State-themed face coverings for coronavirus protection. A 3-pack is available on Fanatics for $29.99.

Buy Buckeyes gear: Fanatics, Nike, Amazon, Lids

More Buckeyes coverage

Will OSU forced to cut sports if football cannot play in 2020 due to COVID-19?

Ohio State football’s 2021 recruiting class dominates All-American Bowl rosters

Yelling about Big Ten football cutting non-conference games: Daily Pod

HBCUs can follow Gonzaga footprint to find college basketball success: Buckeye Take

No football trip to Oregon; Big Ten announces conference-only games for 2020

Gene Smith on college football 2020: ‘I am concerned we may not be able to play’

B1G Commissioner Kevin Warren: “We may not have a college football season”

Ryan Day urges Ohio State fans to wear masks

Football shuts down workouts; Maryland preview: Buckeye Talk Podcast

Four-star safety Kamren Kinchens’ 2021 decision awaits, OSU has few DB targets left

Aaron Craft’s basketball career has similarities to J.T. Barrett’s football career

Ohio State halts athletic workouts after undisclosed number of positive COVID-19 tests