Two Kansas City Chiefs players are participating in the American Century Championship celebrity golf tournament this weekend: quarterback Patrick Mahomes and tight end Travis Kelce. Held in on the shores of Lake Tahoe in Stateline, Nevada, the event normally draws tens of thousands of spectators, but is being played without them due to the coronavirus pandemic.

The tournament uses a modified scoring system where points are awarded for different scores on each hole. A par gets one point, a birdie gets three and an eagle gets six, while a bogey is awarded none and a double bogey subtracts two.

After the first round, former Buffalo Bills defensive lineman Kyle Williams leads the tournament with 25 points after shooting a 70 in the first round. Former Dallas Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo is in second place with 20 points. Mahomes and Kelce are way behind after shooting 88 and 90 respectively, which gave each a score of -3 on the opening day.

But they are clearly having fun!

Pat Mahomes, as excited as anyone has ever been to sink a 10-foot par putt. pic.twitter.com/BCSjvuuqTY — Ben DuBose (@BenDuBose) July 10, 2020

All that’s missing from that celebration is Mahomes counting the distance of the putt on his fingers.

Travis Kelce, for eagle, followed by a chest bump celebration (without pads) with Mahomes. They’re having fun. The beer probably helps. pic.twitter.com/s7bMjK5NLr — Ben DuBose (@BenDuBose) July 10, 2020

After an eagle, why wouldn’t there be a chest bump?

Chiefs Tight End @tkelce just channeled #HappyGilmore after his tee shot on the par 3 17th hole at the @ACChampionship. #ChiefsKindgom pic.twitter.com/w2RiH6s3M4 — Rob Collins (@RCFOX4KC) July 10, 2020

The beer clearly helped on that celebration!

Patrick Mahomes and I finally have something in common pic.twitter.com/CVgHalazH9 — Cody Tapp (@codybtapp) July 11, 2020

The tournament will continue on Saturday and Sunday. On both days, it will be broadcast on NBC-TV (KSHB/41 in Kansas City) beginning at 2 p.m. Arrowhead Time, with a rebroadcast on The Golf Channel at 9 p.m. It may also be streamed at NBCSports.com.