Latest

Weather

Seasonal

Space

Lifestyle

Climate

Severe

Animals

Health Remnants of Tropical Storm Fay to soak Quebec into Sunday Saturday, July 11th 2020, 7:20 pm - Now a post-tropical depression, the storm's worst impacts are behind it, but parts of Quebec are in for a good soaking, lasting into Sunday

Once a tropical storm, and the earliest sixth-named storm on record, Fay weakened to a post-tropical depression soon after making landfall in New Jersey Friday night and continued to weaken as it tracked toward Canadian territory Saturday.

Though far down from its peak strength, Fay's remnants still hold a fair bit of moisture, and it'll manifest as widespread showers over Quebec and parts of Atlantic Canada, already having begun later Saturday.

They're expected to continue through to Sunday, ending through the day, with additional rainfall amounts of as much as 20-40 mm, heaviest in eastern parts of the province. However, those same parts of Quebec may see some embedded thunderstorms through the day Sunday, and areas where storms do spark up may end up tallying localized amounts of 50 mm or more.

The U.S. National Hurricane Center predicts an above-average spate of named storms this year, in the 13-19 range, of which 6-10 are expected to reach hurricane status. The season has already had quite an active start.

The first named storm, Tropical Storm Arthur, already appeared in mid-May, getting the jump on the season's "official" start of June 1st, as did Tropical Storm Bertha soon after.

Tropical Storm Cristobal, boosted by the remnants of a storm in the Pacific, roared back to life right on schedule in early June in the Bay of Campeche, and aside from bringing extreme rainfall to Central America, the moisture from its remnants reached deep into North America.

Lacklustre Tropical Storm Dolly rounded out the June tally, while early in July, Edouard became the earliest fifth-named storm on record.

WATCH BELOW: TROPICAL STORM FAY HITS JERSEY SHORE WITH FLASH FLOODING