A one-year-old boy is in a serious condition in hospital after falling from the window of an upstairs flat in a YMCA building in Birmingham.

The youngster is said to have suffered a head injury after the incident in the Erdington area of the city at around 7.30pm on Friday.

Police have launched an investigation to find out how he came to fall.

The building where the child fell, called The Vineyard, is next to the Chris Bryant Centre, a conference centre and cafe in Reservoir Road.

YMCA describes it on its website as "flats for 'move on' accommodation for people who want to live independently".

Advertisement

A spokesperson for West Midlands Police said: "The one-year-old child was taken to hospital with a serious head injury, where he remains today (Saturday 11 July), as enquiries continue into how he came about his injuries."

A spokesperson for YMCA Heart of England said: "We are aware of the incident that took place last night at a YMCA Heart of England housing scheme, The Vineyard in Erdington, Birmingham, where a child fell from a window of a second floor flat.

"Staff from the YMCA scheme next door attended the scene within minutes and offered our support to the family and everyone involved.

"Our heart goes out to the little boy's family and our thoughts and prayers are with them.

"We are working with the West Midlands Police and will be carrying out our own investigation internally so that we fully understand what has taken place. YMCA Heart of England takes health and safety extremely seriously and our residents' safety and welfare is central to everything we do.

"The Vineyard opened in May 2016 and meets or exceeds all relevant safety standards. We have a dedicated in-house team supported by external professionals to ensure that all of our properties are maintained to the highest standards.

"We will continue to offer support to the little boy's family and to our staff and other residents who have been affected by this."

Anyone with information can contact the force via Live Chat at www.west-midlands.police.uk 8am to midnight, or on 101 anytime, or call Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111, quoting log 4049 of 10 July.