Brooklyn Beckham has confirmed his engagement to fiancée Nicola Peltz.

The photographer, 21, took to Instagram on Saturday to announce the happy news following reports he had popped the question to his 'soulmate' Nicola, 25.

The son of David and Victoria Beckham vowed to be the best 'husband and daddy' as he shared the gushing tribute to his bride-to-be.

Wedding bells! Brooklyn Beckham has confirmed his engagement to fiancée Nicola Peltz

Sharing a stunning snap of the couple, he wrote 'Two weeks ago I asked my soulmate to marry me and she said yes xx I am the luckiest man in the world. I promise to be the best husband and the best daddy one day. I love you baby xx'

In the snap Brooklyn held his hand to the actress' waist, while she held her ring-clad hand to his face in an intimate snap, taken by his little sister Harper, nine.

Nicola looked stunning in a flowing yellow dress with frill detailing, while Brooklyn looked handsome in a two-piece navy suit for the engagement snap.

Brooklyn and Nicola shared identical images on their Instagram pages, as the Bates Motel star admitted she was feeling like the 'luckiest girl in the world'.

Love: The photographer, 21, took to Instagram on Saturday to announce the happy news following reports he had popped the question to his 'soulmate' Nicola, 25

Elated: Brooklyn and Nicola shared identical images on their Instagram pages, as the Bates Motel star admitted she was feeling like the 'luckiest girl in the world'

She wrote: 'You've made me the luckiest girl in the world. I can't wait to spend the rest of my life by your side. your love is the most precious gift. I love you so so much baby and thank you harper for this pic.'

Underneath her post, Brooklyn replied: ' My girl forever xxx I love you more than anything.'

It appears the image was taken recently following the couple's return to the Cotswolds, after isolating together in New York.

Happy: Just moments after the online announcement, fashion mogul Victoria took to her own Instagram account to offer the couple her congratulations

Victoria wrote: 'The MOST exciting news!! We could not be happier that Brooklyn and Nicola are getting married! Wishing you so much love and a lifetime of happiness. We all love you both so much x'

The news broke online on Friday evening that Brooklyn had asked Nicola to be his wife and he has confirmed the speculation just hours later.

Just moments after the online announcement, fashion mogul Victoria took to her own Instagram account to offer the couple her congratulations.

Dazzling! Nicola flashed a glimpse of her dazzling diamond ring in the photograph

She wrote: 'The MOST exciting news!! We could not be happier that Brooklyn and Nicola are getting married! Wishing you so much love and a lifetime of happiness. We all love you both so much x'

An insider told the Mirror on Friday that his parents David, 45, and Victoria, 46, have given their blessing for the marriage to take place.

A source told the publication: 'Brooklyn has been telling his friends in LA that he and Nicola are engaged. It's common knowledge among their group of friends. They are smitten.'

'David and Victoria have very much given this relationship their blessing.

'It's a very exciting time for the whole family and after a few previous rocky relationships, they think Brooklyn has landed on his feet.'

Brooklyn's brothers Romeo, 17, and Cruz, 15, also sweetly offered their well-wishes on social media as they reported their sibling's original post on their Stories.

Brotherly love! Brooklyn's brothers Romeo, 17, and Cruz, 15, also sweetly offered their well-wishes on social media as they reported their sibling's original post on their Stories

No problem! An insider told the Mirror that his parents David, 45, and Victoria, 46, have given their blessing for the marriage to take place

The pair have been dating for around nine months and Brooklyn has previously dated actress Chloe Moretz and model Hana Cross, both aged 23.

The couple often make proclamations of their love on social media and have shared several romantic snaps during their time in lockdown.

The pair have been isolating together in New York with actress Nicola having moved in with the celebrity offspring in March following just five months of dating.

Love: Brooklyn has apparently been telling his pals that he popped the question to his other half for a while

Loved-up! The couple often make proclamations of their love on social media and have shared several romantic snaps during their time in lockdown

The move also reportedly has the backing of Brooklyn's famous parents David and Victoria, who seem to think they're the perfect match.

The source said: '[Brooklyn] and Nicola are closer than ever and they are both excited to take their relationship to the next level by sharing the same home.'

'Nicola has been a big hit with the entire Beckham family - both David and Victoria have made it clear to Brooklyn how much they like her. So they completely support him in this move - though they will miss him a lot.'

Isolation buddies: The pair have been isolating together in New York with actress Nicola having moved in with the celebrity offspring in March following just five months of dating

Brooklyn set up home in the States after ending his internship with iconic photographer Rankin.

The couple have since jetted to the UK to spend time with Brooklyn's family at their country pad in the Cotswolds and have shared snaps of their reunion.

Brooklyn was linked to a string of women before meeting Nicola, following his split from model Hana, including Canadian actress Natalie Ganzhorn, 21, and brunette actress Phoebe Torrance, 25.

His high-profile ex-girlfriends include actress Chloe, 23, and French model-singer Sonia Ben Ammar, 21.

Nicola was previously dating the youngest of the Hadid siblings, model Anwar Hadid. It's believed they dated for just over a year before they split up in May 2018.

Together again! The couple have since jetted to the UK to spend time with Brooklyn's family at their country pad in the Cotswolds and have shared snaps of their reunion

A source told the publication: 'Brooklyn has been telling his friends in LA that he and Nicola are engaged. It's common knowledge among their group of friends. They are smitten'

However the model now appears to be completely loved-up with Nicola and last month the couple wore his mother Victoria's charity T-shirt to mark Pride Month.

Twinning in their tops, the pair appeared besotted with each other as they enjoyed a smooch in a field.

Brooklyn's mother, Spice Girl turned fashion designer Victoria Beckham, 46, has written about how much much she is missing Brooklyn during lockdown in the UK.

Earlier this year, Nicola declared that she and Brooklyn will be together 'forever' as she stressed the strength of their relationship alongside a steamy photograph shared to Instagram.

Pride! However the model now appears to be completely loved-up with Nicola and last month the couple wore his mother Victoria's charity T-shirt to mark Pride Month

Cosy: Nicola declared that she and Brooklyn will be together 'forever' as she stressed the strength of their relationship alongside a steamy photograph shared to Instagram